PAUL: Hello again.
It's entry number two.
This time, let's
talk about video.
So we're not even going
to look at any code.
So if that's boring
to you, I guess
you can stop watching now.
But I wouldn't because
this is actually
really kind of a fascinating
underpinning which
I imagine will come
out in various ways
throughout the build.
But nonetheless, it's
worth talking about now--
which is, how do you actually do
video playback in modern terms?
Simple version, you take a video
element with a source equals
something .mp4 or .mob or
whatever container codec combo
works, right?
And you can have
multiple sources inside.
So fair enough.
You can do that.
More modern versions
use something
called MSE, apparently,
which stands for Media Source
Extensions, I think?
Yes, that sounds about right.
The idea is rather than giving
the video element a file,
a link to a source, like
you would with an image
or even an audio
element or something
like that, what you do is
you have a buffer underneath.
So you attach a buffer
to the video elements
and then you start filling
in that buffer yourself.
Cool.
So you kind of maybe XHR
in each individual chunk
so that you can start
playing the video quickly.
You get your video in chunks.
Fact checks, HR--
whatever works.
And you build up that buffer.
And the video player plays that
video and everybody's happy.
So that's like the next step up.
Then there's another
step up above that,
which is a thing called DASH,
which is Dynamic Adaptive
Streaming Over HTTP.
I don't know whether
they named it DASH before
or after-- they went,
let's call it DASH.
What does it stand for?
I don't know.
Dynamic Adaptive
Sugar-filled Helium.
No, that's not going to work.
However they did
it, DASH is the idea
that, instead of one video file,
that is, say, like 1080p video,
you have different
quality versions
of your video and
your audio and you
want to swap depending on what
the user's bandwidth is looking
like.
So if they're in a low
bandwidth situation,
then you want to adapt
to a lower quality video
to just keep them going.
And this dovetails into MSE
because you've got this buffer
that you're filling.
Well, why not fill that buffer
with a lower quality version
when that makes sense to do so?
Or a higher quality version when
that makes sense to do that?
So you're using DASH to kind
of swap between qualities,
and you're filling that
buffer in that way.
So that's MSE and DASH in a
very, very, very short space
of time and that's
probably about as well
as I understand them.
Now in order to get your
video into that format--
there are a bunch of
ways you can do it,
but there's normally
something like FFmpeg
is going to be used
to take the big video
and turn it into all
the different quality
variations that you need.
All those different-- I think
they're called representations
or adaptations--
anyway, representations,
I think is what it is.
And there's a bunch of
tools that you can use.
The one I've been using is
called the shaka-packager,
which ties into the
shaka-player, which I'll
talk about at some other point.
But the shaka-packager--
you give it
all the different
versions of your video
and it creates this
manifest that has
like how much bandwidth each
one needs and what size it is.
Is it 1280 by 720
or 1920 by 1080?
And what codecs it's using--
all that kind of stuff.
So it makes this
big manifest that
is a DASH manifest
that you can hand over
to a DASH-compatible player.
So that's all good.
That works on--
I believe it's Chrome, I
think Firefox, desktop Safari.
I make that distinction
because it matters.
Chrome, Firefox, desktop Safari.
I don't remember how Edge is.
I'll have to look that one up.
Or you can look it up yourself.
Because, I mean, that's
how the internet works.
And then on the
mobile Safari side,
things are a little different.
There's a thing called
HLS, which I can't
remember what that stands for.
Bear with me, I'm just
going to Google it.
HTTP Live Streaming.
Effortless, you see?
And it's an alternative way
of splitting down the big .mp4
or whatever you've got into
different chunks that you can
then swap between.
And so in some
ways, it's sort of
analogous to DASH because you
have these different versions
of the file.
So you started with big HD
video and you split it down
to different qualities.
And then you make
an HLS manifest,
and there are tools that you can
get that will segment the media
file and make a playlist of
all these different variations
and all that kind of stuff.
And then you end up
at the end of this,
instead of a DASH manifest, you
end up with an M3U8 manifest.
It's a playlist file,
which on mobile Safari,
you just say video source
equals and then you
give it that playlist file--
this M3U8 playlist file--
and it will do the rest.
So that's the kind of video
on demand way of doing it.
I think it's slightly
different, again,
if you do live streaming.
I haven't even looked at live
streaming yet, so bear with me.
And I haven't even looked at
things like encrypted media.
All things for future stuff.
Right now, I've been
concentrating on,
I have a video.
What on earth do I need to do
to this video to make it play?
So there you go.
So there's the MSE.
But really, DASH and HLS.
DASH and HLS seem to be
the two things that I'm
going to be looking at.
Hopefully, making
them automatically
swap between whichever
one depending on support.
And I guess that's that.
So stick with me.
In the next episode,
I think I'm going
to show you around some of the
prototypes I've been building.
Because those have been quite
interesting to build as well.
To try out some of these things.
I'll show you the manifests.
Yes, I will show you the
DASH and HLS manifests.
Loads of stuff.
There's so much that
we can talk about.
Speaking of which,
if there are things
that you want me to
cover, don't forget
to drop those in the comments.
Everybody who's been
commenting so far-- thank you.
It's lovely to have your
input and your feedback.
And I will see you
in the next episode.
Hey, folks, thanks for watching.
Don't forget that there
is more content that you
can find kind of over here-ish.
And if you want to subscribe,
there's probably a button--
I dunno, maybe there.
Maybe somewhere around there.
Click that if you've
not done that.
Brilliant.